SRS to Bachelor Thesis v0.1 (#200)
BlueAndi/DroidControlShip: doc/SensorFusion/SRS/srs_eng.md

# Software Requirements Specification (SRS)

> ## Project Title: Sensorfusion of Localization data for Pololu Zumo32U4

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Project Title: Sensor fusion of Localization data for Pololu Zumo32U4
```

| FREQ-103 | The ZumoComSystem shall check the integrity of received data (e.g. timestamp, format)                                  |             |                |
| FREQ-104 | Each instance of the ZumoComSystem shall use a unique Zumo ID to differentiate multiple robots in the same simulation. |             |                |

#### 3.2.2 Sensor Fusion

| ID                  | Description                                                                                                                                 | Verified by | Implemented by |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------- | -------------- |
| FREQ-204            | The ZumoComSystem shall time-align odometry, SSR, (and if enabled IMU measurements) within a configurable latency budget.                   |             |                |
| FREQ-205            | The ZumoComSystem shall fuse odometry with external absolute pose to estimate x, y, orientation, and linear velocity in SI units.           |             |                |

> | FREQ-203 (Optional) | The ZumoComSystem may integrate IMU measurements into the sensor fusion when enabled                                                        |             |                |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| FREQ-203 | The ZumoComSystem may integrate IMU measurements into the sensor fusion when enabled                                                        |             |                |
```

# Software Requirements Specification (SRS)
## Project Title: Sensorfusion of Localization data for Pololu Zumo32U4

> Version 0.2

Reviewer 2: Version is not necessary as the versioning is done via PRs into the main branch

Author: Tobias Haeckel
Bachelor Thesis

> ## Version History

Reviewer 2: See comment above

| Name | Date  | Reason for Change  | Version |
|------|--------|---------------------|---------|
|Tobias Haeckel | 2025-10-01 |Init|0.1|

## Table of Contents
- [Software Requirements Specification (SRS)](#software-requirements-specification-srs)
  - [Project Title: Sensorfusion of Localization data for Pololu Zumo32U4](#project-title-sensorfusion-of-localization-data-for-pololu-zumo32u4)
  - [Version History](#version-history)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- [1. Introduction](#1-introduction)
  - [1.1 Purpose](#11-purpose)
  - [1.2 Product Scope](#12-product-scope)
  - [1.3 Definitions, Acronyms, and Abbreviations](#13-definitions-acronyms-and-abbreviations)
  - [1.4 References](#14-references)
  - [1.5 Overview](#15-overview)
- [2. Overall Description](#2-overall-description)
  - [2.1 Product Perspective](#21-product-perspective)
  - [2.2 Product Features](#22-product-features)
  - [2.3 Assumptions and Dependencies](#23-assumptions-and-dependencies)
    - [2.3.1 Assumptions](#231-assumptions)
    - [2.3.2 Dependencies](#232-dependencies)
- [3. Requirements](#3-requirements)
  - [3.1 External Interface Requirements](#31-external-interface-requirements)

>     - [3.1.1 User Interfaces](#311-user-interfaces)

Reviewer 2: Maybe going 3 levels deep is too much for the table of contents. Maybe even 2 levels deep is already too much information

Reviewer 2: Maybe the auto-generation can be tailored, or left completely out?

- **Odometry** – Estimation of traveled distance and rotation based on wheel encoders.  
- **MQTT** – Message Queuing Telemetry Transport, a lightweight publish/subscribe communication protocol.  
- **Sensor Fusion** – Combination of multiple data sources (e.g., odometry, IMU, vision) into a consistent state estimate (e.g., via EKF).  
- **Webots** – Open-source robot simulator used for proof-of-concept evaluation.  
- **Pose** – Robot’s position and orientation in 2D space (x, y, yaw).  

## 1.4 References

- **SpaceShipRadar (SSR)** – OpenCV-based external localization system:  
  <https://github.com/NewTec-GmbH/SpaceShipRadar>  

- **Webots** – Open-source robot simulator:  
  <https://www.cyberbotics.com/>  

- **RadonUlzer Applications** – Firmware for Zumo32U4:  
  <https://github.com/BlueAndi/RadonUlzer>  

- **DroidControlShip** – Firmware for ESP32 (ZumoComSystem):  
  <https://github.com/BlueAndi/DroidControlShip>  

- **Pololu Zumo32U4 User Guide** – Hardware documentation:  
  <https://www.pololu.com/docs/0J63/all>  

- **PEP-8** – Style Guide for Python Code:  
  <https://peps.python.org/pep-0008/>  

## 1.5 Overview

> This document is structured into the following main sections:

Reviewer 2: Same thought. Same applies to the table of contents

> This document is structured into the following main sections:

Reviewer 2: There is a lot of repetition between the overview and the requirements themselves. Probably is better to remove this overview and jump directly to the requirements as these are already organized in tables. See that you only have one source of information instead of the same information in several places. This applies to the use of the glossary too!

- **Section 1 – Introduction**  
  Defines the purpose, scope, terminology, and references relevant to this project.  

- **Section 2 – Overall Description**  
  Provides the system context, the product perspective, major functions, and assumptions or dependencies.  

- **Section 3 – Requirements**  
  Specifies the functional and non-functional requirements.  
  Subdivided into interface definitions, system features, quality attributes, standards compliance, and implementation constraints.  

- **Section 4 – Verification**  
  Describes the methods and environments used to verify and validate the requirements.  

- **Section 5 – Appendices**  
  Contains supporting information such as glossary, analysis models, and a list of open issues (TBD).  

# 2. Overall Description

> ## 2.1 Product Perspective

Reviewer 2: Missing line between headings. Do you have the Markdown extension enabled?
Also, there shall only be one top-level heading in the document.
Please enable the extension for more linting

  - Provides additional processing and communication capabilities  
  - Firmware: [DroidControlShip](https://github.com/BlueAndi/DroidControlShip)  
  - Basis for further development (LineFollower extension and fusion logic)

- **PC/Laptop**  
  - Runs the camera-based position detection using [SpaceShipRadar](https://github.com/NewTec-GmbH/SpaceShipRadar) (OpenCV)  
  - Provides absolute position, orientation, and velocity via MQTT (topic structure `ssr/#`)

## 2.2 Product Features

The main features of the software include:
- **Integration of Sensor Data**  
  - The ZumoComSystem shall receive odometry from the Zumo32U4 via USB (using the RadonUlzer firmware). 
  - (Optional) The ZumoComSystem shall receive IMU data from the Zumo32U4 via USB.
  - The ZumoComSystem shall receive absolute position, orientationm, and velocity from the SpaceShipRadar via MQTT.

- **Sensor Fusion**
  - The ZumoComSystem shall fuse the received data using appropriate sensor fusion techniques. The data sources include:
    - Odometry (from Zumo32U4)
    - (IMU data (from Zumo32U4))
    - External position data (from SpaceShipRadar via MQTT)

- **Data Publishing**

>   - The ZumoComSystem shall publish the calculated pose (position and orientation) and velocity via MQTT for use by other systems.

Reviewer 2: you already defined what Pose is, so the parenthesis is unnecessary

- **Simulation and Real-World Operatuion**

>   - The software shall be capable of running in both the Webots simulation environment and on real hardware (Zumo32U4 + ZumoComSystem).

Reviewer 2: You already defined what the real hardware is so you do not need to specify it here again

- **Extensibility**
  - The software architecture shall be modular to allow for future extensions, such as adding more sensor sources (e.g., magnetometer) or alternative fusion methods.

>System Overview Diagram (to be added later)

## 2.3 Assumptions and Dependencies
### 2.3.1 Assumptions

| ID | Type | Description | Status |
|----|------|-------------|--------|
| A-01 | Assumption | The ZumoComSystem receives Odometry minimally every 100ms. |  open |
| A-02 | Assumption | The ZumoComSystem receives IMU data minimally every 100ms | needs to be implemented |

> | A-03 | Assumption | A MQTT broker is available and reachable by all components. |  open |

Reviewer 2: I believe `A MQTT` is grammatically correct

> | A-03 | Assumption | A MQTT broker is available and reachable by all components. |  open |

Reviewer: At least wikipedia says "an MQTT [broker, client, whatever]" because it is pronounced "**e**MQTT" probably 😄

### 2.3.2 Dependencies
| ID | Type | Description | Status |
|----|------|-------------|--------|
| D-01 | Dependency | Use of external software libraries: RadonUlzer, DroidControlShip, SpaceShipRadar. | active |
| D-02 | Dependency | Simulation environment *Webots* is provided and compatible with RadonUlzer/DCS. | ok |

> | D-03 | Dependency | Communication between Zumo32U4 and ESP32 via MAX3421E is reliably available. | ok |

Reviewer 2: Is it necessary to specify the MAX chip? What if we decide to use other chip or method?

| SW-303 | [SpaceShipRadar](https://github.com/NewTec-GmbH/SpaceShipRadar) on PC/Laptop provides absolute position data via MQTT | | |
| SW-304 | MQTT Broker (e.g., Mosquitto) for communication between components | | |

## 3.2 Functional Requirements

### 3.2.1 External Inputs & Communication
| ID     | Description | Verified by | Implemented by |
|--------|-------------|-------------|------------------|
| FREQ-101 | The RadonUlmzer firmware on the Zumo32U4 shall provide IMU data to the ZumoComSystem (Optional)| | | 
| FREQ-102 | The ZumoComSystem shall subscribe to the MQTT topic `ssr/<id>` to receive absolute position data | | |
| FREQ-103 | The ZumoComSystem shall check the integrity of received data (e.g. timestamp, format, correct Zumo ID) | | |
| FREQ-104 | Each instance of the ZumoComSystem shall use a unique Zumo ID to differentiate multiple robots in the same simulation. | | |

### 3.2.2 Sensor Fusion/Data Fusion
| ID     | Description | Verified by | Implemented by |
|--------|-------------|-------------|------------------|
| FREQ-204 | The ZumoComSystem shall time-align odometry, SSR, (and if enabled IMU measurements) within a configurable latency budget. | | |

> | FREQ-205 | The ZumoComSystem shall fuse odometry with external absolute pose to estimate x, y, yaw, and linear velocity in SI units. | | |

Reviewer 2: Yaw or orientation?

# Software Requirements Specification (SRS)

## Project Title: Sensorfusion of Localization data for Pololu Zumo32U4

Author: Tobias Haeckel
Bachelor Thesis

## Table of Contents

- [Software Requirements Specification (SRS)](#software-requirements-specification-srs)
  - [Project Title: Sensorfusion of Localization data for Pololu Zumo32U4](#project-title-sensorfusion-of-localization-data-for-pololu-zumo32u4)

>   - [Version History](#version-history)

Reviewer 2: Version History has been removed but the table of contents is outdated. This is a good example against the use of an extensive table of contents

    - [3.2.4 Logging and Diagnostics](#324-logging-and-diagnostics)
    - [3.2.5 Error Handling](#325-error-handling)
      - [3.2.5.1 Functional Requirements](#3251-functional-requirements)
      - [3.2.5.2 Status Levels](#3252-status-levels)
      - [3.2.5.3 Status / Event Codes](#3253-status--event-codes)
  - [3.3 Quality Attributes](#33-quality-attributes)
    - [3.3.1 Performance](#331-performance)
    - [3.3.2 Availability](#332-availability)
    - [3.3.3 Standards \& Compliance](#333-standards--compliance)
  - [3.4 Design- and Implementation Constraints](#34-design--and-implementation-constraints)
    - [3.4.1 Installation](#341-installation)
    - [3.4.2 Distribution](#342-distribution)
- [4. Verification](#4-verification)
  - [4.1 Verification Methods](#41-verification-methods)
  - [4.2 Traceability (Requirements → Primary Method)](#42-traceability-requirements--primary-method)
  - [4.3 Test Environment](#43-test-environment)
- [5. Appendices](#5-appendices)
  - [Appendix A: Glossary](#appendix-a-glossary)
  - [Appendix B: Analysis Models](#appendix-b-analysis-models)
  - [Appendix C: Open Issues (TBD)](#appendix-c-open-issues-tbd)

> # 1. Introduction

Reviewer 2: There shall only be one top level heading

Reviewer 2: Consider installing https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=DavidAnson.vscode-markdownlint

## 1.1 Purpose

The purpose of this document is to specify the software requirements for the project _Sensorfusion of Localization data for Pololu Zumo32U4_ with the ZumoComSystem (ESP32). It serves as a guide for design, implementation, verification and later maintenance of the software.
The intended audience includes:

> - The supervisor(s) of the Bachelor thesis

Reviewer 2: lowecase bachelor. fix all occurrences please

  - Firmware: [RadonUlzer](https://github.com/BlueAndi/RadonUlzer), application _RemoteControl_

- **ZumoComSystem (ESP32-based extension board)**

  - Provides additional processing and communication capabilities
  - Firmware: [DroidControlShip](https://github.com/BlueAndi/DroidControlShip)
  - Basis for further development (LineFollower extension and sensor fusion logic)

- **PC/Laptop**
  - Runs the camera-based position detection using [SpaceShipRadar](https://github.com/NewTec-GmbH/SpaceShipRadar) (OpenCV)
  - Provides absolute position, orientation, and velocity via MQTT (topic structure `ssr/#`)

## 2.2 Product Features

The main features of the software include:

- **Integration of Sensor Data**

  - The ZumoComSystem shall receive odometry from the Zumo32U4 via USB (using the RadonUlzer firmware).
  - The ZumoComSystem may receive IMU data from the Zumo32U4 via USB.
  - The ZumoComSystem shall receive absolute position, orientation, and velocity from the SpaceShipRadar via MQTT.

- **Sensor Fusion**

  - The ZumoComSystem shall fuse the received data using appropriate sensor fusion techniques. The data sources include:
    - Odometry data (from Zumo32U4)

>     - (IMU data (from Zumo32U4))

Reviewer 2: Why is this in parenthesis? How shall this be interpreted?

    - External position data (from SpaceShipRadar via MQTT)

- **Data Publishing**

  - The ZumoComSystem shall publish the calculated pose and velocity via MQTT for use by other systems.

- **Simulation and Real-World Operatuion**

  - The ZumoComSystem shall receive absolute position, orientation, and velocity from the SpaceShipRadar via MQTT.
  - The software shall be capable of running in both the Webots simulation environment and on real hardware.

- **Extensibility**
  - The software architecture shall be modular to allow for future extensions, such as adding more sensor sources (e.g., magnetometer) or alternative sensor fusion methods.

> System Overview Diagram (to be added later)

## 2.3 Assumptions and Dependencies

### 2.3.1 Assumptions

| ID   | Type       | Description                                                 | Status                  |
| ---- | ---------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------- |

> | A-01 | Assumption | The ZumoComSystem receives odometry minimally every 100ms.  | open                    |

Reviewer 2: I think `minimally` is not the correct word. Maybe `at least`?

> | A-02 | Assumption | The ZumoComSystem receives IMU data minimally every 100ms   | needs to be implemented |

Reviewer 2: A-02 is optional, right? How are optional requirements differenciated?

| A-03 | Assumption | A MQTT broker is available and reachable by all components. | open                    |

### 2.3.2 Dependencies

| ID   | Type       | Description                                                                       | Status |
| ---- | ---------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------ |
| D-01 | Dependency | Use of external software libraries: RadonUlzer, DroidControlShip, SpaceShipRadar. | active |

> | D-02 | Dependency | Simulation environment _Webots_ is provided and compatible with RadonUlzer/DCS.   | ok     |

Reviewer 2: When are you using italics? For glossary words?

| D-03 | Dependency | Communication between Zumo32U4 and ZumoComSystem is reliably available.           | ok     |

# 3. Requirements

## 3.1 External Interface Requirements

### 3.1.1 User Interfaces

| ID     | Description                                                                                                   | Verified by | Implemented by |
| ------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------- | -------------- |

> | UI-101 | The ZumoComSystem shall publish fused localization data (pose and velocity) via MQTT topic `zumo/<id>/fusion` |             |

Reviewer 2: I think the definition of the topics at this level (requirements-level) is a bit too specific. But we can leave them here for the time being

| UI-102 | The ZumoComSystem shall publish status messages via MQTT topic `zumo/<id>/status`                             |             |
| UI-103 | The ZumoComSystem shall publish raw data used for sensor fusion via MQTT topic `zumo/<id>/sensors`            |             |
| UI-104 | The ZumoComSystem shall subscribe to external position data via MQTT topic `ssr/<id>`                         |             |

### 3.1.2 Hardware Interfaces

| ID     | Description                                                     | Verified by | Implemented by |
| ------ | --------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------- | -------------- |

> | HI-201 | The ZumoComSystem shall receive odometry data from the Zumo32U4 |             |                |

Reviewer 2: Are these HW interfaces? I would have expected USB as a HW interface for the communication between RU and DCS, ignoring the type of information that is exchanged. And this communication is already present so it does not have to be part of your requirements. It is already part of your preconditions and that is enough
